# Chapter 4 - Operating System and Project Development Talk

In many programs, there are a large class of special programs called OS (Operating System). The operating system is the most basic program that lets the computer:

Run up
2. All the hardware is on the list
3. Accept instructions from other programs

Correspondingly, other programs are called applications. The relationship between the operating system and the application is just like the basic consciousness of people and the level of mathematics. I want to let a person who has no basic consciousness (such as a vegetative person) take part in the college entrance examination - it seems that you and I are crazy. The general computer is separated from the hardware, operating system and application, and installed separately when needed. Some special devices directly operate the operating system in hardware (such as embedded operating systems), such as various electronic game consoles, can boot, but have a game CD or game card to play, and some computers to operate the operating system and applications They are all put together and placed inside the machine. The Tetris handheld game consoles and electronic pets that were popular N years ago are such devices.

## Operating system talk [[1]](#ref1)

Long long ago, is a spring in the United States in the 1960s. The computer of that era was a new thing, very cumbersome, and not for home users. It was a commercial or experimental, scientific computing machine. You said that you want to buy a computer landlord? You can't afford to sell you to the landlord. In other words, the computer at that time was not used by anyone. At that time, when the computer was used, people used to input a series of instructions to perform various operations. The instructions they enter are roughly equivalent to the current assembly instructions, so this efficiency and operational difficulty can be imagined.


At that time, most of the computers did not have any operating system. At most, there was a batch processing system, which could record the instructions to be input on a medium (such as a paper tape) and let people save the trouble of repeatedly inputting instructions. . Later, there was a very simple operating system, but it was not as common as the operating system we saw today. At this time, the manufacturer selling the computer has to design a different operating system for each type of computer. If a program is written on this type of computer, it cannot be run on other models, because these two machines Even the operating system is different, how can the program be generic? If the computer is old, it will definitely not work. Otherwise, if you want to play the landlord today, the game company will have to send someone to your home to write one now - because the operating system on different models of computers is not universal.


The problem of this landlord was finally solved by the big landlord of the IT industry of that era, and the blue IBM company took the lead. In 1964, their company introduced a series of mainframes with different uses and prices, but the operating system they run on them is System/360. (This 360 is not a shoe seller, nor is it the one that fights with QQ.) This has been a great success because it saves the cost of writing a separate system for each computer. To this day, IBM's mainframe can still run this 360 system, showing the compatibility that was originally considered when designing. However, the protagonist we are going to talk about is not 360, but another great operating system.


At that time, there was a place where a lot of cattle were gathered, called Bell Labs, which was founded by AT&T in 1925. A group of guys with well-developed limbs are not necessarily simple. They gather there all day, researching novel things, any arbitrary doors, bamboo rafts, memory breads, oh yeah... they are not invented (the people who invented them are Japanese scientist). What do the people at Bell Labs study? Bell Labs' work can be broadly divided into three categories: basic research, systems engineering, and application development. In basic research, he is mainly engaged in the basic theoretical research of telecommunications technology, including mathematics, physics, materials science, behavioral science and computer programming theory. Anyway, the few universities that the university can't understand are right. Systems engineering focuses on highly complex systems that make up telecommunications networks. The development department is the largest division of Bell Labs and is responsible for designing the equipment and software that make up the Bell system telecommunications network. Specifically, Bell Labs has researched things such as transistors, LEDs, digital switches, communications satellites, electronic digital computers, cellular mobile communications, audio movies, stereo recordings, and more. (How about, isn't it worse than the robot cat?) Many major inventions of the communication network were born here.

At that time, there was a place where a lot of cattle were gathered, called the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), a comprehensive private university in the United States with the reputation of "the world's most technological university." There are many cattle people coming out of here. By 2009, there were 76 Nobel Prize winners who had studied or worked at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. MIT's natural and engineering sciences enjoy an excellent reputation in the world, as well as management, economics, philosophy, political science, and linguistics. In addition, MIT develops high-tech weapons and the top secret Lincoln lab in the United States, leading world-class computer science and artificial intelligence laboratories, world-class media labs, and many of the world's top CEOs Sloan School of Management. It is also a valuable asset of MIT. With unquestionable strength, MIT is naturally not bad at money. By the end of 2008, MIT had $10.1 billion in total assets. Because it was not bad, the school was free of tuition for students whose annual income was less than $75,000.

At that time, there was another place where a lot of cattle were gathered. (Which place!) This place is a company called General Electric. This company is a big company. When it was a light bulb, their light bulbs were different. Although they were not energy-saving, although their lifespan was not as long as they are now, although the price is more expensive than now, although the shape is not necessarily good, but they are The first one sells light bulbs! Because of their boss, it is the famous Thomas Edison. In 1876, Edison students who invented the light bulb set up the Edison Light Bulb Factory, making outstanding contributions to saving candles and lamp oil. It is estimated that the May 1st Labor Medal of that year must be his. By 1890, Edison students reorganized the light bulb factory and established Edison General Electric Company. In 1892, it merged with Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form General Electric Company.


Ok, it’s time for 1965. These three places where there are a lot of cattle people suddenly want to cooperate. So, the famous Bell Labs, the famous Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the famous General Electric Company started a plan to make an operating system. In order to end the chaos that there is no unified operating system on the computer for a long time, they decided to create a set of ** before the ancients have no come, go to the hall, get the kitchen, read the world, and sigh alone The amazing operating system! Specifically, this operating system should be a multi-user, multi-tasking, multi-level operating system, because these three, so the operating system is called - MULTICS. With the strong alliance of these three, what is the result of the development? The project for the MULTICS operating system was established in 1965 and was cancelled in 1969...

Cough, this... In fact, writing an operating system is not an easy task. After all, the road is a twist, the research is hard, the results are still dripping, failing to pinch... It is also forgiving. The project failed and everyone was frustrated. Among these frustrated people, Kenneth Lane Thompson was just a very common one - born in New Orleans in the United States in 1943. He grew up eating his roast wings and did not live up to the parents who raised him and the chickens without wings. In 1960, Thompson was admitted to the University of California at Berkeley majoring in electrical engineering and successfully obtained a master's degree in electrical engineering. In 1966, he joined Bell Labs and participated in the MULTICS project. It is a very hard thing to do the project. After the tired eyes of the night because of the red eyes, he would like to have a computer game to play. However, don't say Super Mario at that time, even eating beans! So Thompson made a game for himself, called Star Trek. This interstellar travel is definitely not comparable to StarCraft, but it was already very attractive at that time. This game is naturally designed to run on the MULTICS system. Because the MULTICS system is not perfect, the game is not running smoothly. Therefore, the smooth play of Star Trek has become the driving force for Thompson's hard work. But then the project was killed. If things ended like this, then Thompson could no longer play his Star Trek smoothly, which is a pity. But the reality is cruel, the project is indeed canceled, what if you want to play games smoothly? Lao Mao taught us to say: Do it yourself, and get enough food. I estimate that Thompson did not recite Mao Zedong's quotations, but he used his own actions to prove the correctness of these two sentences. He swapped out a PDP-7 machine in the corner and, together with his colleague Dennis Ritchie, planned to port Star Trek to the PDP-7. Of course, if you want to run this game, you still have to have a system. With a fixed system, it is more convenient to write other games later. But where does the system come from? MULTICS? It has been shut down, and this system is definitely not something that two people can handle. What should I do? Still have to do it yourself! So Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie once again carried forward their own spirit, writing a system in assembly language, this is the original, very simple, the predecessor of UNIX. This system is not like MULTICS Then the cow, does not support a lot of users, can only support two users, (estimated to avoid the situation that the two people grab the machine after the game is done. Or may it be for the two players to fight?) The support process is limited, Other features are not as complex as the MULTICS design. Compared to the MULTICSED Information and Computing System, Brian Kernighan jokingly said that their system is actually: "UNiplexed Information and Computing System", abbreviated as "UNICS". Later, when everyone took the homonym, the word UNIX was born. This year, it was already 1970, and history was called the first year of Unix.

Until now, the computer used the origin of 0:0:0 on January 1, 1970 as the origin to record the time. (The time recorded in the computer is from 0:00:0 on January 1, 1970, and the total number of seconds passed until now, and then the number of seconds is used to calculate the year, month, and day.) Later, Brian Kernighan felt that The system written by Hui is not well maintained, so... He invented the C language (in line with Daniel’s own hands-on style) and then rewrote it in C language. Since then, Unix has embarked on the fast track of development and has been used until now. Many of the world's largest servers use Unix systems (in fact, for now, many open source Linux systems are used on servers). ** And all this effort is to play a game. -\_-b**

### Operating system and platform

In general, a computer without an operating system, like an unconscious body, cannot move.

Do you think the operating system is cool? Do you want to write a set yourself? Writing an operating system is much more difficult than usual, and it involves a lot of background knowledge and low-level operations. Any newcomer who can't even digest this book should completely dispel the idea of ​​making an operating system. Otherwise, I can't afford to vomit blood. It's not too late to try again.

The scores provided to the piano and the accordion are not exactly the same, which is a consensus. why? - Because this is two different instruments. Similarly, there are many kinds of computers in this world, and they are very different from each other. Every computer needs an operating system, and a certain computer may have several operating systems available, just like we can speak Chinese or speak English. But it is also possible that it can only be installed with a few operating systems. For example, Mac OS X is not natively supported by ordinary computers. **The combination of a specific computer and a specific operating system is called a platform. ** Just as piano music is not used by Beijing rhythm drums, it does not have any good effect on Indian idioms in Chinese. Programming is usually done on a platform. There are some high-level languages ​​that claim to be cross-platform—that is, they can run on many platforms. Cross-platform does not mean that it can run on every platform. Generally speaking, it can support some mainstream platforms and can be called cross-platform.

If you want to achieve something in programming, you have to choose a platform to delve into. Personally, it is not suitable for beginners to learn on two platforms of different nature at the same time. Different characteristics will definitely confuse you. After you have confirmed that you have mastered one, you can learn another and learn from each other.

### Notes

1. <a name="ref1">[1]</a> This section is taken from the "Stupid Bunny Story". If the original author feels that it is not suitable, please indicate it in time.
